Today's corporate world is growing with the speed of light, everything in our corporate world is getting automated to boost the industry but the way of taking
attendance or tracking a record of people's presence is still ancient way. Educational institutes still use the old method of calling out the name of a roll of
students. We can say that companies, educational institutes and governmental offices around the world still use some of the old methods like managing attendance sheets. However nowadays in the fast-paced working environment, these old methods are too inconvenient and inefficient.  The method of taking attendance records has evolved through the years but still, they can't completely fix the problems like:

1) A Biometric system using fingerprints is the most common way of taking attendance that is used by companies to ensure that employees are truly present by scanning their fingerprints or handprint. But we all know after 2020 it is not a good idea to use a public fingerprint sensor.

2) Scanning the QR code on the ID card, also takes time and is not that convenient.


In the corporate world, Employee attendance affects the overtime pay, your customer's experience and your overall finances. In the Educational field, it affects the whole progress of the students.
Challenges to attendance include unexpected absences, late arrivals, early departures and sick employees coming to work.
We should craft attendance policies and use time and attendance software to measure employees’ hours.
The modern way we want to implement is to fix a sensor which keeps a track of who is present at that particular point. How is this different from CCTV, CCTV camera just records the activity and stores it in the server, our sensor records the activity, analysis the data that it receives, recognizes the face, calculates the activity and stores the whole summary of what exactly was happening at that point. In simple words we can say a CCTV camera is like an eye and our sensor is like an eye with a brain.

In different types of offices, security rooms include multiple monitors with multiple camera recordings on them. There we find out that only one or maybe two security guards monetise all that information. Let's be honest it's impossible to notice if something happens then. They might pay attention after the disaster happens.
Even after something happens it's really hard to recognize at what point in time it happened. Even after so many precautions, it's a big security threat for us to rely on CCTV cameras which will just show us how the event was caused. We all know precaution is better than prevention.

The device we are planning to build is will analyse all the data from the sensors and provide that data on a particular screen making it easier to handle and monetise. It will also send a warning if it senses some unusual activity is taking place. 

CCTV cameras in the bank take the footage at night but it won't be able to stop it from happening. Our future updates will send the signal at that point of time to the nearest police station, and if we get data from government files then at the same time it will be able to recognize the person through addhar links. As we all know addhar has the whole biometric of a person.

In criminal cases, if police suspect someone then it is impossible to keep track of that person for 24 hrs using a CCTV camera because then we have to assign another person to watch him through a CCTV camera. Our device with the help of AI will be capable to keep track of the person.
We have already seen fire sensors which spray water on that detected area. Just like  that our device will also detect activities and will give us signals on our mobiles
  




